# EEE102TermProject
Bilkent - EEE102 Term Project - Retro Car Game
Proposed Design Methodology
	The VGA interface requires Horizontal SYNC and Vertical SYNC signals along with the signals that specify the amount of red, blue and green each pixel must display. To implement my project, I need to first generate the HorizontalSYNC and VerticalSYNC signals which are controlled by a pixel clock. Two counters, HorizontalPosition and VerticalPosition, holds the information of the pixels row and column coordinates. Two counters are generated to control the timing of the HorizontalSYNC and VerticalSYNC signal and to implement the map, the car and the scoreboard. The Sync module of my project generates these signals.
	MapCLK module is a clock divider which determines the speed of the map. The map is generated in the MovingMap module. The map is stored in a 9450x400 bitmap, and moves downwards. The column and row coordinates that are determined in the Sync module is used to display the map. The portion of the map that is displayed is serialized and sent out in a STD_LOGIC signal, which functions much like VerticalSync and HorizontalSync signals, and is controlled by the pixel clock.
	MovingCar module is also consists of two components, a clock divider that determines the speed of the car, and the signal generator module which serializes the bitmap along with the position of the car. The generated signal is sent to top module. 
	The ScoreBoard module works in a similar fashion. It consists of a BCD counter, a clock divider, and a signal generator.  The BCD counter counts the score and the bitmaps that display 0 through 9 is used to display the score. The signal generator then determines the bitmaps that are going to be displayed and generates a serialized signal that is controlled by the Pixel Clock which contains the information of the position of bitmaps and which bitmaps are used. 
	In my main module, I determine if the game has started, the game has ended etc. The logic of the FSM is as follows: The game starts if the user has turned on the start switch (V17 on Basys-3 board), A synchronous pause switch pauses the game. As long as the game is not over, i.e. the player has not hit the obstacles or the edges of the map, the score counts. If the game is over, a Game Over screen is displayed along with the score. Switching the start pin again resets the score and starts the game wherever the user has died.  On the start and pause states, the map, the car and the scoreboard are displayed. The outputs of the MovingMap, MovingCar and Scoreboard are used to determine the Red, Blue and Green signals that the VGA interface requires. The “game over” condition is determined by the two STD_LOGIC signals which are the output of the MovingMap and Moving Car modules. If the AND of those signals are ‘1’, then one of the pixels of the car and one of the pixels of the map that light up are on the same pixel, which means the car has hit the edges of the map or one of the obstacles. The main module also implements the components specified above. 
